Add EIP-6170: Cross-Chain Messaging Interface (#6172)
ethereum/EIPs: eip-6170.md

Even chain-native arbitrary messaging protocols like the MATIC State Tunnel has an application-specific interface.

## Specification

The keywords "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

Every compliant messaging tunnels must implement the following interface.

``` solidity
pragma solidity >=0.8.0;

/// @title Cross-Chain Messaging interface
/// @dev Allows seamless interchain messaging.
/// @author Sujith Somraaj
/// Note: Bytes are used along the entire implementation to support non-evm chains.

interface EIP6170 {
    /// @dev This emits when a message is sent from a sender on source chain to a receiver on a different blockchain.
    /// @param _sender is the address of the sender.
    /// @param _fromChainId is the identifier of the sending blockchain.
    /// @param _receiver is the address of the receiver.
    /// @param _toChainId is the identifier of the receiving blockchain.
    /// @param _message is the arbitray message being sent.
    /// NOTE: this emits when the message is sent, it does not gurantee successful delivery.

>     event MessageSent(

Reviewer: These parameters will often want `index` for filtering, and this tends to be significant for off-chain functionality. So much so that folks will [emit two events](https://github.com/hyperlane-xyz/hyperlane-monorepo/blob/b450181c7fc255149ce86551f21dacd7ab47d5f5/solidity/contracts/Mailbox.sol#L84) just to get around the 3 index cap.

        bytes _sender,

>         bytes _fromChainId,

Reviewer: `fromChainId` may not be needed on either of these events - if you're listening to these being emitted, you know exactly what chain you're connected to.

    /// @return the status of the process on the sending chain.
    /// Note: this function is designed to support both evm and non-evm chains
    /// Note: proposing chain-ids be the bytes encoding of their native token name string. For eg., abi.encode("ETH"), abi.encode("SOL") imagining they cannot override.
    /// Note: MUST emit a {MessageSent} event.
    function sendMessage(
        bytes memory chainId,
        bytes memory receiver,
        bytes memory message
    ) external returns (bool);

    /// @dev Receives message from a sender on different blockchain.
    /// @param chainId is the unique identifier of the sending blockchain.
    /// @param sender is the address of the sender.
    /// @param message is the arbitrary message sent by the sender.
    /// @return the status of message processing/storage.
    /// Note: MUST emit a {MessageReceived} event.
    /// Note: sender validation (or) message validation should happen before processing the message.
    function receiveMessage(
        bytes memory chainId,
        bytes memory sender,
        bytes memory message
    ) external returns (bool);
}
```

## Rationale

> The Cross-Chain interface is designed to be optimized for messaging layer integrators with a feature complete yet minimal interface. Validations such as sender authentication, receiver whitelisting, relayer mechanisms and cross-chain execution overrides are intentionally not specified, as Messaging protocols are expected to be treated as black boxes on-chain and inspected off-chain before use.

Reviewer: "interoperability layer" from "messaging layer" (the more frequently used term to describe these)
"feature-complete, yet" from "feature complete yet"

```suggestion
The Cross-Chain interface is designed to be optimized for interoperability layer integrators with a feature-complete, yet minimal interface. Validations such as sender authentication, receiver whitelisting, relayer mechanisms and cross-chain execution overrides are intentionally not specified, as Messaging protocols are expected to be treated as black boxes on-chain and inspected off-chain before use.
```

---
eip: 6170

> title: Cross Chain Messaging Interface

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Cross-Chain Messaging Interface
```

description: A common smart contract interface for interacting with messaging protocols.
author: Sujith Somraaj (@sujithsomraaj)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/cross-chain-messaging-standard/12197,https://ethresear.ch/t/standardisation-of-cross-chain-messaging-interface/13770
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-12-19
---

## Abstract

A Standard Interface For Cross-Chain Messengers. The following standard allows for implementing a standard API for cross-chain messaging within smart contracts. This standard provides basic functionalities to send and receive a cross-chain message (state).

## Motivation

> Cross-chain messaging protocols lack standardization leading to diverse implementation detail. Some examples include Layerzero, Hyperlane & Wormhole, having their own sets of implementations. This makes integration difficult at the aggregator or plugin layer for protocols that must conform to any standards and forces each protocol to implement its adapter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cross-chain messaging protocols lack standardization, resulting in unnecessarily complex competing implementations: Layerzero, Hyperlane & Wormhole each use a different interface. This makes integration difficult at the aggregator or plugin layer for protocols that must conform to any standards and forces each protocol to implement its adapter.
```

> Even chain native arbitrary messaging protocols like Matic State Tunnel has its own way of implementation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Even chain-native arbitrary messaging protocols like the MATIC State Tunnel has an application-specific interface.
```

> 
> The lack of standardization not only makes integration difficult but also is error prone as developers need to understand the operation of the messaging protocol at its core.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
The benefits of standardization are well-known to people that read standards.

> 
> A standard for cross-chain messaging will lower integration efforts for cross-chain messaging while creating more robust & secure cross-chain application development.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 
> To the worst, each messaging protocol has its chain ids (or) chain identification mechanism. However, this mechanism is used as they support non-EVM chains, which makes integration a nightmare.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

MUST revert if `chain id` is invalid.
MUST return `true` on successful response from underlying messaging protocol.

**NOTE:** I'm proposing chain-ids be the bytes encoding of their native token name string. For eg., abi.encode("ETH"), abi.encode("SOL") imagining they cannot override.
       
       function sendMessage(bytes chainId, bytes receiver, bytes message) public returns(bool)

receiveMessage
Receive message/state from `sender` on a predetermined `chain id`
MUST emit `MessageReceived` event.
MUST support global based chain-ids.
MUST revert if `sender` or `chain-id` is invalid.
MUST return `true` on successful processing.

**NOTE:** Sender validation (or) message validation, gas overrides are handled at relayer level.

       function receiveMessage(bytes chainId, bytes sender, bytes message) public returns(bool)

### Events

MessageSent
MUST trigger when message is sent, include zero bytes transfers.
       
       event MessageSent(bytes _sender, bytes _fromChainId, bytes _receiver, bytes _toChainId, bytes message)

MessageReceived
MUST trigger on any successful call to `receiveMessage(bytes chainId, bytes sender, bytes message)` function. 
       

>        event MessageReceived(bytes _sender, bytes _fromChainId, bytes _receiver, bytes _toChainId, bytes message)

Reviewer 2: The formatting here is missing. Would you mind e.g. putting this in a solidity interface with NatSpec comments?

Author: sure will do

## Rationale

The Cross-Chain interface is designed to be optimized for messaging layer integrators with a feature complete yet minimal interface. Validations such as sender authentication, receiver whitelisting, relayer mechanisms and cross-chain execution overrides are intentionally not specified, as Messaging protocols are expected to be treated as black boxes on-chain and inspected off-chain before use.

## Security Considerations

> Fully permissionless messaging could be a security threat to the protocol. It is recommended that all the integrators review the implementation of messaging tunnels before integrating.

Reviewer 2: > Fully permissio'nless messaging could be a security threat to the protocol.

How so?

Author: For eg., without sender authentication, anyone could write arbitrary messages into the receiving smart contract. 

This EIP focuses only on the way the messages should be sent and received with a specific standard. But any authentication (or) message tunnel specific operations should be made inside the receive function and should be handled by the integrators or through wrapper contracts.

Reviewer 2: Please put that in the EIP.

## Copyright

> Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://eips.ethereum.org/LICENSE)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md)
```
@SamWilsn how did EIPW not catch this either?
